Conflicts of interest and the specter of coercive diplomacy emerge in the model due to governments' protectionist preferences. Trade theory reserves a role for small trade policy distortions for governments that seek to maximize aggregate societal wealth [@Johnson1953; @Broda2008]. Empirically, governments implement larger trade distortions than predicted in theory, however. This regularity motivated the study of the political economics of trade policy. While nearly free trade may be good for a society as a whole, owners of specific factors of production may prefer protectionism. If these groups have better access to the policymaking process, trade policy may be more protectionist than is optimal for society [@Mayer1984; @Rogoswki1987; @Grossman1994]. A family of studies uses these theoretical insights to estimate governments' sensitivity to narrow versus diffuse interests [@Goldberg1999; @Mitra2006; @Gawande2009; @Gawande2012; @Ossa2014; @Gawande2015]. Because these models incorporate no theory of international coercion, these estimates reflect the assumption that policy choices directly reflect preferences.

Fiscal pressures might also drive protectionism. Some governments are constrained in their ability to raise revenue through taxes on domestic economic activities. Tariffs and other trade distortions may substitute as a revenue-raising strategy in these cases [@Rodrik2008; @Queralt2015]. I take no stance on the domestic political origins of protectionist preferences. I induce these by incorporating concern for revenue into the government's objective function (independent of its welfare effects). This leads to a preference for trade barriers higher than what would be optimal for governments that cared only about the welfare of a representative consumer. What is important here is that efforts to achieve this objective impose externalities on foreign governments. 

These externalities motivate the lobbying efforts of domestic special interests and structure international negotiations over trade policy. In contemporary political economic accounts, large and productive firms pressure their own governments to secure market access abroad in order to increase profit opportunities [@Ossa2012; @Osgood2016; @Kim2017]. By contrast, in my model, lower barriers to trade abroad increase wages at home (helping consumers) and stimulate trade (increasing revenue). Therefore, regardless of their relative preference for consumer welfare versus rents, governments prefer to reduce barriers confronting their exports. Modeling government preferences in this manner captures market access incentives tractably while avoiding ascribing a particular domestic political process to their origin.

Because of these preferences for foreign trade liberalization, governments have incentives to influence others' policy choices. Analyzing governments' foreign policy in the 17th and 18th centuries, @Viner1948 concludes "important sources of national wealth...were available...only to countries with the ability to acquire or retain them by means of the possession and readiness to use military strength." Powerful governments established colonies and threatened independent governments in order to shape policy abroad to their liking [@Gallagher1953]. While formal empires died quickly after World War II, softer forms of influence remained. @Lake2013 terms the resulting order a "hierarchy" in which weaker countries exchanged sovereignty for international political order, provided by a hegemonic United States. @Berger2013 show that this hierarchy has not always been benevolent — U.S. political influence was used to open markets abroad, a form of "commercial imperialism." An earlier literature ascribed international economic openness to the presence of such a hegemon [@Krasner1976; @Gilpin1981; @Kindleberger1986]. In conceptualizing openness as a public good, these theories made stark predictions about the distribution of military power and the international economy. In reality, the benefits of changes to trade policy are quite excludable. The model developed here reflects this reality by allowing governments to adopt discriminatory trade policies. Power can therefore be exercised to secure benefits not shared by other governments. The resulting international economic orders defy characterization as "open" or "closed." In a stylized version of the model developed here, I show that latent regime change threats can be used to open foreign markets. Militarily weak countries adopt lower barriers to trade than their powerful counterparts, all else equal [@Cooley2019a]. @Antras2011 consider a similar model in which governments influence elections abroad. Again, this influence has a liberalizing effect on the foreign government's trade policy.

Nevertheless, debate persists about the efficacy of military power in achieving economic benefits [@Mastanduno2009; @Drezner2013; @Bove2014; @Stokes2017]. These studies all confront the inference problem discussed here — does economic policy reflect governments' underlying preferences or the shadow of foreign military power? When redistribution is an alternative to war and bargaining is frictionless, war is not necessary to achieve coercive effects [@Brito1985; @Fearon1995; @Art1996]. I assume that the effectiveness of military coercion depends on the geographic distance between a threatening and defending country. By examining the responsiveness of policy to foreign threats, I can quantify this relationship, providing estimates of the loss of strength gradient discussed in a body of quantitative studies on war and militarized interstate disputes [@Boulding1962; @BuenodeMesquita1980; @Diehl1985; @Lemke1995; @Gartzke2011].

Several studies have examined trade policy bargaining theoretically and empirically. @Grossman1995 extend the protection for sale model to a two-country bargaining setting. @Maggi1999 and @Bagwell1999 focus on the effect of the institutional context in which trade policy negotiations take place, relative to an un-institutionalized baseline. @Ossa2014, @Bagwell2018a and @Bagwell2018b quantify these theories in structural models. Of course, the continued functioning of international institutions requires either a) that complying with the rules of the institution be incentive compatible for each member state, given others' strategies or b) that an external authority punish deviations from the institutions' rules sufficiently to induce compliance [@Powell1994]. Given the absence of such an external authority and the stark international distributional implications of alternative trade policy regimes, it is natural to consider how the ability to employ military force colors trade policy bargaining. 

Trade and trade policy are often theorized as tools governments can leverage to achieve political objectives [@Hirschman1945; @Gowa1993; @Martin2012; @Seitz2015].  Yet, affecting trade policy and concomitant prices, wages, and trade flows is also a central government objective in international relations. Moreover, the political objectives that ostensibly motivate governments in these "trade as means" models are loosely defined (e.g. "security") and themselves means to achieving other ends. Studying trade policy as a strategic end allows the analyst to leverage a family of empirical methods in international economics to construct counterfactual trade regimes and analyze their welfare implications [@Eaton2002; @Head2014; @Costinot2015; @Ossa2016]. Government objectives can be defined flexibly as a function of general equilibrium outputs (prices, wages, revenues).

A handful of other theoretical studies examine how power affects exchange in market environments [@Skaperdas2001; @Piccione2007; @Garfinkel2011; @Carroll2018]. Where property rights are assumed in classical models of the economy, these authors consider exchange and violence as coequal means to acquire goods from others. I instead direct attention to coercive bargaining over endogenous trade frictions (trade policy). These in turn affect the distribution of goods and welfare in the international economy.